docs: document configurable Gateway listener ports and route sectionName overrides (#9400)
camunda/camunda-docs: docs/self-managed/deployment/helm/configure/ingress/gateway-api-setup.md

| `global.gateway.tls.enabled`           | boolean | `false` | Enable TLS on the Gateway listener. Requires `global.gateway.tls.secretName` to be set.                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| `global.gateway.port`                  | integer | `80`    | The port of the plaintext (HTTP) Gateway listener. Change this when your Gateway controller exposes HTTP on a non-standard port.                                                                                                                                                       |
| `global.gateway.tls.port`              | integer | `443`   | The port of the HTTPS Gateway listener. Change this when your Gateway controller exposes HTTPS on a non-standard port (for example, Traefik's `8443` `websecure` entrypoint).                                                                                                          |

> | `global.gateway.httpSectionName`       | string  | `""`    | Override the `parentRefs.sectionName` on the HTTPRoutes. Must match a listener name on the target Gateway. Only set this for an externally-managed Gateway (see the warning below).                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: Small thing, this reads a bit cleaner as a section link than "see the warning below" (and it still works if someone lands here from search):

```suggestion
| `global.gateway.httpSectionName` | string | `""` | Override the `parentRefs.sectionName` on the HTTPRoutes. Must match a listener name on the target Gateway. Only set this for an externally-managed Gateway. See [externally-managed gateway with custom listener names](#externally-managed-gateway-with-custom-listener-names). |
```

Reviewer 2: @zaycodes This is a common AI-related correction/AI assisted/written style issue we are trying to avoid -- note based on the style guide we refer to links as "See `[externally-managed gateway with custom listener names]` instead of "See `[Externally-managed]`", for example.

Reviewer: Thanks for pointing this out @christinaausley. Though this was an oversight from my end and not necessarily AI-assisted as I've been matching link text casing with the headings they link to.

> | `global.gateway.grpcSectionName`       | string  | `""`    | Override the `parentRefs.sectionName` on the GRPCRoute. Must match a listener name on the target Gateway. Only set this for an externally-managed Gateway (see the warning below).                                                                                                     |

Reviewer: Same tweak here:

```suggestion
| `global.gateway.grpcSectionName` | string | `""` | Override the `parentRefs.sectionName` on the GRPCRoute. Must match a listener name on the target Gateway. Only set this for an externally-managed Gateway. See [externally-managed gateway with custom listener names](#externally-managed-gateway-with-custom-listener-names). |
```

Reviewer 2: @zaycodes This is a common AI-related correction/AI assisted/written style issue we are trying to avoid -- note based on the style guide we refer to links as "See `[externally-managed gateway with custom listener names]` instead of "See `[Externally-managed]`", for example.

When TLS is enabled, the chart configures the Gateway listener on port 443 with `protocol: HTTPS` and sets `sectionName: https` on all HTTPRoutes, and sets `sectionName: grpcs` on the GRPCRoute (used by Zeebe).

### Custom listener ports

> By default the Gateway listens on port `80` for HTTP and port `443` for HTTPS. Set `global.gateway.port` and `global.gateway.tls.port` when your Gateway controller exposes these on non-standard ports, for example Traefik's `websecure` entrypoint on `8443`:

Reviewer: Tiny one, comma after "for example":

```suggestion
By default the Gateway listens on port `80` for HTTP and port `443` for HTTPS. Set `global.gateway.port` and `global.gateway.tls.port` when your Gateway controller exposes these on non-standard ports, for example, Traefik's `websecure` entrypoint on `8443`:
```

> By default the Gateway listens on port `80` for HTTP and port `443` for HTTPS. Set `global.gateway.port` and `global.gateway.tls.port` when your Gateway controller exposes these on non-standard ports, for example Traefik's `websecure` entrypoint on `8443`:

Reviewer 2: Unsure if "Gateway" should be capitalized across these references -- @zaycodes can you confirm based on our glossary/style guide/and industry standards?

Reviewer 2: In glossary:

> ### Gateway

> Gateway can refer to different concepts in Camunda docs, depending on the context:

> - In BPMN, a gateway controls how a process flow branches, merges, or synchronizes.
> - In runtime and API contexts, the [Zeebe Gateway](#zeebe-gateway) is the component that exposes APIs and routes requests to Zeebe brokers.
> - In Kubernetes deployment docs, Gateway can also refer to Kubernetes Gateway API resources.

Reviewer: Capitalized is right here. Our glossary actually spells it out: "Gateway" is capitalized when it means the Kubernetes Gateway API resource, which is what this page is about. Same logic for Route, HTTPRoute, and GRPCRoute. They are Kubernetes resource kinds (like Ingress or Pod), so they stay capitalized when we mean the actual resource, and the Kubernetes Gateway API docs do the same.

Reviewer 2: This would make me think then, should we spell out Kubernetes Gateway like we do something like Zeebe Gateway in each instance so a user wouldn't be confused with other versions of gateway in BPMN? I don't know if we use "Gateway" on any other pages, but if so could consider in all instances.

Reviewer: I don't think we need to spell out "Kubernetes Gateway" every time. The page already frames it up front (the title, the description, and the first sentence all say "the Kubernetes Gateway API"), and there's no BPMN content on this page, so plain "Gateway" should be clear after that.
The Zeebe Gateway comparison is a bit different too. "Zeebe Gateway" is the component's actual name, but in the Gateway API the resource kind is literally just "Gateway" (and Route, HTTPRoute, GRPCRoute), so we wouldn't rename it "Kubernetes Gateway" everywhere. Kubernetes' own docs do the same, they say "Gateway API" once and then "Gateway."
Really it's the capitalization that distinguishes, capital "Gateway" is the Kubernetes resource, lowercase "gateway" is the BPMN element, which is how our glossary splits them, so I don't think we need a page-wide change.

Reviewer 2: Your call, just things to consider 👍

```yaml
global:
  host: "camunda.example.com"
  gateway:
    enabled: true
    createGatewayResource: true
    className: nginx
    port: 8080
    tls:
      enabled: true
      secretName: camunda-platform
      port: 8443
```

### Externally-managed Gateway with custom listener names

When attaching Routes to a Gateway you do not manage (for example, one owned by a Cluster Operator), its listener names may not match the chart defaults (`http`, `https`, `grpc`, `grpcs`). Use `global.gateway.httpSectionName` and `global.gateway.grpcSectionName` to point the Routes' `parentRefs.sectionName` at the listener names the target Gateway actually defines:

```yaml
global:
  host: "camunda.example.com"
  gateway:
    enabled: true
    createGatewayResource: false
    name: shared-gateway
    namespace: shared-infra
    httpSectionName: web
    grpcSectionName: grpc-web
```

:::warning

> The `sectionName` overrides act only on the Route resources and must match a listener name on the target Gateway. When the chart manages the Gateway (`createGatewayResource: true`), the listener names are fixed to `http`, `https`, `grpc`, and `grpcs`, so setting an override there detaches the Route from the Gateway silently.

Reviewer 2: Same comment here for Route @zaycodes -- it reads a little weird and we should probably confirm.

Reviewer: Same as my note on the Gateway thread: Route is a Kubernetes resource kind here, so capitalized is correct. I agree the sentence is a bit dense though, so happy to smooth the wording if that is what feels off.

> The `sectionName` overrides act only on the Route resources and must match a listener name on the target Gateway. When the chart manages the Gateway (`createGatewayResource: true`), the listener names are fixed to `http`, `https`, `grpc`, and `grpcs`, so setting an override there detaches the Route from the Gateway silently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

:::warning
Only set the `sectionName` overrides for an externally-managed Gateway, and make sure each value matches a listener name on that Gateway. When the chart manages the Gateway (`createGatewayResource: true`), the listener names are always `http`, `https`, `grpc`, and `grpcs`. Setting an override in that case detaches the Routes from the Gateway with no error.
```
